Doc for filtering, sorting, and sampling (#50)
duneanalytics/dune-api-docs: api-reference/executions/sampling.mdx

---
title: Sampling
---

> Our API supports sampling on all `/results` endpoints to provide a uniform sample of the dataset for efficient data analysis and visualization. This feature is particularly useful for use cases like charting, where analyzing a full dataset isn't necessary. Sampling returns a randomized subset of data, optimizing performance and resource utilization. You can apply sampling to the following endpoints:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our API supports sampling on all `/results` endpoints to provide a uniform sample of the dataset for efficient data analysis and visualization. This feature is particularly useful for use cases like charting (if you only have 4 000 pixels on the chart, then 10 000 datapoints are plenty), where analyzing a full dataset isn't necessary. Sampling returns a subset (with a uniform distribution) of data, optimizing usage of very large results with reduced latency and costs. You can apply sampling to the following endpoints:
```

- [Get Execution Results](./endpoint/get-execution-result)
- [Get Execution Results CSV](./endpoint/get-execution-result-csv)
- [Get Query Results](./endpoint/get-query-result)
- [Get Query Results CSV](./endpoint/get-query-result-csv)

### Sampling Parameters

#### `sample_count`
- **Type:** `integer`
- **Description:** Determines the number of rows to return as a sample from the result set. If the available dataset contains fewer rows than the specified `sample_count`, the entire dataset is returned. 

<Note>
- Sampling is designed to provide a randomized subset of data, with each request potentially producing different outcomes.

> - When specifying `sample_count` (e.g., `sample_count = 10000`), the number is approximate. The actual number of rows returned may vary slightly (e.g., 10013, 10017), reflecting the approximate nature of the sampling process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When specifying `sample_count` (e.g., `sample_count = 10000`), the number is approximate. The actual number of rows returned may vary slightly (e.g., 10013, 10017), reflecting the probabilistic nature of the sampling process.
```

- `sample_count` is incompatible with `offset`, `limit`, `filters`, and `sort_by` parameters.  
- `sample_count` can be used with `columns` to specify which data fields to include in the sample.

> - Specifying a low sample_count relative to total rows (e.g., 10 in 100,000) may convert to 0% and return 0 rows, due to percentage-based sampling calculation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Specifying a low sample_count relative to total rows, being probabilistic, may return 0 rows due to the probability based sampling calculation (e.g., 10 in 100,000, each row has ~0.01% chance to be included) 
```

        ```
        </Tab>

        <Tab title="Python">
        ```python
        import requests

        url = "https://api.dune.com/api/v1/query/{query_id}/results"

        headers = {"X-DUNE-API-KEY": "<x-dune-api-key>"}

        params = {"sample_count": 10_000}

        response = requests.request("GET", url, headers=headers, params=params)

        print(response.text)

        ```
        </Tab>

        <Tab title="Javascript">
        ```javascript

        const options = {
            method: 'GET',
            headers: {
                'X-DUNE-API-KEY': '<x-dune-api-key>'
            }
        };

        const queryParams = new URLSearchParams({
            sample_count: 10000
        });
        const url = `https://api.dune.com/api/v1/query/{query_id}/results?${queryParams}`;

        fetch(url, options)
            .then(response => response.json())
            .then(response => console.log(response))
            .catch(err => console.error(err));

        ```
        </Tab>
    </Tabs>
</Accordion>

### Sampling Response

<Accordion title="Example sampling response">

>     _Showing reponse for `sample_count=200` instead of specified `sample_count=10000` in example request to not overwhelm the doc._

Author: yep, trimmed
